## Scientific background

### Drug development
Drug development times and R&D expenditures have risen considerably in the last decades.
In fact, to bring a new compound to market can take a decade on average [@doi:10.1038/nrd1178].
This development process, according to a 2016 estimate by DiMasi et al. [@doi:10.1016/j.jhealeco.2016.01.012], costs an average of $2.87 billion dollars, including post-approval R&D.
This amount is up from two previous studies by the same authors which found the average captialized R&D costs to be $802 million in 2003 [@doi:10.1016/S0167-6296(02)00126-1] and $318 million in 1991[PMID: 10113009].
Despite increases in drug development time and expenditures, the rate of R&D failure has increased since the 1990s [@doi:10.1038/nrd3405].
As of a 2014 study, an estimated one in ten drugs which enters phase I of clinical development will receive FDA approval [@doi:10.1038/nbt.2786].
Only about one in 5,000 compounds which begin preclinical testing are eventually approved [PMID: 11572541].

### Drug repurposing
Drug repurposing refers to the application of an existing therapeutic to a different disease than the one for which it was originally intended.
Because candidates for drug repurposing have already been approved for other diseases, the time and cost associated with repurposing a drug are very small compared to the development of a new drug.
In fact, even compounds which have been deemed safe but failed in clinical development can be candidates for drug repurposing.
Several examples exist of drugs which have been repurposed, for example aspirin to treat coronary artery disease, sildenafil to treat erectile dysfunction, and gabapentin to treat postherpetic neuralgia.
Most successfully repurposed drugs were discovered serendipitously and not through any systematic discovery mechanism.
Our goal is to make accurate predictions of drugs which are candidates for drug repurposing.
We hope to do this using heterogeneous networks of biomedical information to learn the patterns of connections between compounds and diseases.

### Graphs
Write some intro graph theory stuff here, ie adjacency matrix, path counts, etc.
