## Summer aims

This summer I worked within the Greene Lab project called 'Hetmech' [@url:https://github.com/greenelab/hetmech/].
Hetmech aims to improve upon and expand our existing method for predicting drug repurposing targets.

I had three primary aims for my work this summer.
The details of each are covered in the Methods section.

First, I wanted to add a capability within Hetmech to compute precisely the degree-weighted path count (DWPC).
Previously, the three options had been an extremely slow DWPC method, an inaccurate DWPC method, and a degree-weighted walk count (DWWC), whose limitations will be covered in the Methods section. 

Second, I hoped to decrease the time required to make calculations of DWPC.
Towards this aim, I hoped to speed up computation by at least an order of magnitude.
Sparse matrices and parallel computation were planned solutions to this problem.

Finally, it was my goal to add a multiple search capability.
This involves querying a set of nodes to return a set of predictions for nodes which connect the queried nodes.
For example, one should be able to search a set of symptoms and return a list of potential diseases that connect the symptoms.
As with the previous problems, moving to strictly matrix computation makes this much more simple.

My secondary aim for the summer was to become familiar with and contribute to open-source, reproducible, computational science in biology.
I hoped to contribute to a collaboratively written review of deep learning methods in the fields of biology and medicine [@url:https://github.com/greenelab/deep-review].
